At John 15:20, Jesus said:
“A slave is not greater than his master.
If they have persecuted me,
they will also persecute you.”
How will we react when we are mistreated?
How will we find the strength to endure?
We have a record of faithful servants of old.
We know that Jehovah’s people can endure.
But we also have the record
of Jehovah’s Witnesses in modern times.
The following video draws on footage
from two previously released videos
by the organization.
It highlights two outstanding examples:
our brothers in Germany during World War II
and our brothers in the former Soviet Union
in the years that followed the war.
It also reveals the tactics
that enemies of the truth consistently use
—to no avail—against Jehovah’s people.
Reviewing and meditating on the examples
of these faithful brothers and sisters
will prepare us for what lies ahead,
will fill us with courage,
and will strengthen our faith.
On January 30, 1933,
Adolf Hitler comes to power.
Hitler gave the people jobs.
He restored their faith
in the fatherland.
He is hailed as their savior.
But the Witnesses could not give to a man
what they believed belonged to God.
Thus, a battle line
was drawn over a simple greeting
—“Heil Hitler.”
Jehovah’s Witnesses
refused to say “Heil Hitler”
because it meant
“Salvation comes from Hitler.”
At his job in a steel mill,
one Witness faced this test.
I was the only one among 2,000
who did not raise my hand
and did not return the German salute
—every day running the gauntlet,
since I was required
to give the German salute,
and I simply said,
“Good day.”
Children were drawn into the battle.
Six-year-old Paul Gerhard Kusserow,
like other Witness children, was pressured
by students and teachers.
As soon as I entered school,
the head teacher and the pupils confronted me
and tried to make me say, “Heil Hitler.”
More than 800 children were taken away
from their Witness parents by the Gestapo.
In one German state after another,
the police shut down meetings
of the Witnesses
and prohibit their door-to-door preaching.
At first, there were nasty words,
sometimes a beating,
but soon enough, it led to the first arrests.
Starting in 1937, Jehovah’s Witnesses
were given a purple triangle
as a sign.
Jehovah’s Witnesses
were the only religious group
that made up a separate category of inmates.
The Jehovah’s Witnesses
received especially severe treatment.
The goal was to destroy this religious group;
there were to be
no more Witnesses in Germany.
The Nazis, obsessed with breaking
the Witnesses’ stubborn commitment,
made them an extraordinary offer.
Each Witness could buy
his freedom for a price: his signature
and his faith.
Witnesses in prisons and camps
were repeatedly handed
a piece of paper and a pen.
Very few signed.
When I was to be released from prison,
I was given a paper to sign.
It required that I give up my faith
and recognize the German government
as the highest authority,
place myself under the Hitler government,
and consider the Bible as a false doctrine.
I said, “That’s out of the question!”
The unity among the sisters and the brothers
—that gave us so much strength.
It was our aim
to endure under all circumstances.
We never prayed to be set free.
We prayed for strength to endure.
Everything else was unimportant.
What mattered
was standing up for Jehovah’s name.
On February 19, 1951,
the head of the security police
presented a secret plan to Stalin.
All of Jehovah’s Witnesses
—including infants and pregnant women—
would be exiled.
The plan was code-named “Operation North.”
Stalin approved it.
Interestingly, the Witnesses
were offered a way to avoid deportation.
The man in charge
of the deportation of our family
tried to persuade Father to sign a paper
renouncing the organization
of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Few Witnesses, if any, accepted this offer.
Once in Siberia,
the Witnesses were dropped off
at settlements along the rail lines.
The majority of the Witnesses
were forced to cut trees.
We recalled the time when the Israelites
lived in Egypt
and how they were forced to work.
We prayed, “God,
make our faith stronger so that this work,
which is beyond our strength,
will not shake us.”
Stalin’s death in 1953
brought hope of relief.
But relief would be a long time
in coming.
The new regime went on in the same course.
They arrested and sentenced us.
Most arrested Witnesses
were sentenced to labor camps.
In court, they could not expect a fair trial.
Guilty verdicts
had already been decided upon.
Under the Khrushchev administration,
special “reeducation” camps were set up,
designed to turn inmates from their beliefs.
During this period, propaganda films
designed to discredit Jehovah’s Witnesses
were distributed throughout the USSR.
Whoever has studied persecution in the past
has seen that in one way or another,
persecution is always built on a lie.
The victim is slandered.
Besides using propaganda, for many years,
the KGB recruited informers
to infiltrate Witness congregations.
For instance, in 1968,
the KGB district director
offered Nikolai Bychkov an assignment.
He requested me
to spy on Jehovah’s Witnesses.
One Witness booklet that compared
the teaching of evolution with the Bible
changed the KGB informer’s viewpoint.
No one could answer that question:
how life appeared.
In the Bible,
I could find answers to those questions.
In Khabarovsk in 1984, Nikolai Bychkov,
now a baptized Witness,
and several fellow believers
were accused of anti-Soviet activities.
But the all-out attack
on the Witnesses’ faith backfired
on the persecutors.
In Germany and in Soviet times,
they thought that you could get rid
of an idea by using extreme violence.
But it turned out
that when an idea is strong,
it makes people strong.
So the outcome was just the opposite
of what was expected.
In March 1991,
Jehovah’s Witnesses
were legally registered in Russia.
I think it is frightening
only if you’ve never faced difficulties.
But once you face them,
you know that special strength.
When we rely on Jehovah
—we ask for his guidance;
we ask for his help—
we will always get it.
In addition to horrible physical treatment,
God’s people faced slander,
outright lies, and fabrications,
even in the form of propaganda films.
Opposers attempted to infiltrate
our brotherhood with informants.
But as we saw
in the example of Nikolai Bychkov,
such devious plans are in vain
when pitted against the truth
from God’s Word.
As Professor Nikolai Gordienko noted,
“When an idea is strong,
it makes people strong.”
What idea can be stronger
than the reality of our Father, Jehovah;
his reigning King, Jesus Christ;
and his Kingdom,
now poised to thwart all opposition?
And so, what people
can possibly be stronger
than Jehovah’s people?
As our brothers in Russia
and other areas of the earth
face renewed opposition
and as we all face the prospect
of being mistreated
just as our Master, Jesus, was,
we are determined to stand firm
and remain faithful
no matter what the enemies of truth attempt.